Powerful AI is moving from the cloud to the client, and this is your chance to build with it! Join the Google Chrome Built-in AI Challenge 2025 to create new web applications or Chrome Extensions using a suite of built-in AI APIs and powerful models, including Gemini Nano. 

Here’s how you can use our innovative suite of APIs to bring your ideas to life: 

💭 Prompt API: generate dynamic user prompts and structured outputs, now with multimodal support for image and audio input. 

🔤 Proofreader API: correct grammar mistakes with ease. 

📄 Summarizer API: distill complex information into clear insights.  

🌐 Translator API: add multilingual capabilities and translate text into your preferred language. 

✏️ Writer API: Create original and engaging text. 

🖊️ Rewriter API: Improve content with alternative options. 

These APIs work client-side, which means your AI features are delivered locally, with privacy, offline access, and cost-efficiency benefits. For you and your users, this means:

⚙️ Creative freedom: Build freely without having to worry about server costs or quotas, enabling new, proactive AI patterns.

🔒 Inherent privacy: Deliver hyper-personalized experiences with the guarantee that user input or context never leaves the device.

✅ Network resilient UX: Create features with consistent availability and performance, including for users who are offline or on unstable connections.

Are you hoping to extend your web application or extension’s reach to even more users, including those on mobile devices? Implement a hybrid AI strategy with either Firebase AI Logic or the Gemini Developer API.

Ready to get started? To gain access to the latest documentation, stay up-to-date with new APIs, and join the community, be sure to sign up for the Chrome Built-in AI Early Preview Program. Whether you’re a seasoned developer or new to hackathons, this challenge is your opportunity to share your vision to define the future of client-side AI. We want to see how you’ll give the web a brain boost and a creative spark! 


Note: All hackathon projects must be new and original for this year’s event. If you participated in the 2024 hackathon, you cannot reuse the same project or project concept. Your entry must use a new idea and a new application.

Why join?


Build Your portfolio and skills: Walk away with a brand-new project and hands-on experience with cutting-edge Web AI using Gemini Nano. 

Innovate and be recognized: Showcase your ingenuity and get a chance to have your project featured on Google's social channels.

Connect with experts: Gain valuable feedback and unique insights directly from the Google Chrome team. 

Requirements
What to Build
Entrants must develop a new web application or Chrome Extension that uses one or more APIs to interact with Chrome’s built-in AI models, such as Gemini Nano. 

The APIs include but are not limited to the Prompt API for Web and in Chrome Extensions, Summarizer API, Writer API, Rewriter API, Translator API, and Proofreader API 
What to Submit
Include an application built with the required developer tools and meets the above application Requirements.
Include a text description that should explain the features and functionality of your application. Text description must also include which APIs were used, and the problem you are looking to solve.
Include a demonstration video of your application. The video portion of the submission:
should be less than three (3) minutes
should include footage that shows the application functioning on the device for which it was built
must be uploaded to and made publicly visible on YouTube or Vimeo, and a link to the video must be provided on the submission form on the Contest Site; and
cannot contain any content, element, or material that violates a third party’s publicity, privacy or intellectual property rights.
Include a URL to a public open source GitHub repository. The repository must include an open source license and should include instructions and everything the judges require to test the application. 
Access must be provided to an entrant’s working application for judging and testing by providing a link to a website, functioning demo, or a published application. If Entrant’s website is private, Entrant must include login credentials in its testing instructions. The application must be public. 
Written and video parts of Entries must be in English.


Judging Criteria
Functionality
How scalable is the application? How well are the APIs used within the project? Can it be used in other regions, or can it be used by more than one type of audience?
Purpose
Does your project meaningfully improve a common user journey or task? Does your project unlock a new capability, previously impractical on the web?
Content
How creative is the application? What’s the visual quality like?
User Experience
How well executed is the application? Is it easy to use and understand?
Technological Execution
How well are you showcasing 1 or more of the APIs powered by AI models built into Google Chrome?